
<!-- idris
main : IO ()
main = pure ()
-->

# Show case: STG backend for Idris2

# About my background

TODO

# Step 1: Know the foundations

# Architecture of compilers

TODO

# ExtSTG and STG interpreter

* Architecture of GHC Haskell/Core/STG/Cmm/RTS
* How to use STG to generate executable via STG
* What is ExtSTG and GHC-WPC

# Architecture of the Idris2 Compiler

* Surface language =? Dependent types
* Elaboration =? Type Inference
* Code generation
* Backends

# Lazy Haskell and Strict Idris?

* In STG there is no overhead for lazy computation.
* Case expressions force evaluation.
* https://www.reddit.com/r/haskell/comments/ku1zsm/nextgen_haskell_compilation_techniques/

# A bit on the backend part

* Lifted
* ANF
* VM

# But what is STG?

* Lambda calculus like language.
* TODO: Overview image

# Step 2: Select the Idris IR

* Why did I select ANF?

# Step 3: Use the Idris2's excellent API.

# Compiler Backend API

# Idris2 isn't an optimiser compiler, but

* Optimisation opportunities
* Your backend is responsible for optimisations

# Core Monad

* What's in the core monad?
* How it represents definitions
* Names and Resolved names
* Compiled vs Expr
* How it represents datatypes

# Step 4: Think about how to turn Idris IR to something.

# Challenges

* How to represent Values
* How to represent FFI
* Implement String operations
* Implement arbitrary precesion integers
* How to compile TopLevel definitions
* How to get the right arity
* Holes

# Holes

Holes in idris programs are compiled to runtime crashed. The backend should
at least generate some warnings when runtime crash toplevel is found
during compilation.

# FFI

TODO: What is the difference between %extern and %foreign?

# Step 5: Enjoy your Idris program

# Step 6: Compare with others

# Other backends

* Scheme
* RefC
* Lua

# Questions?

# NOTES:

* Use screenshots in the presentation when showing IRs.
* Use color scheme of the Idris ReadTheDocs
